Friends here we're implementing a simple shell script to
send automatic male alert when ram memory gets low,
let me implement this shell script with step-by-step.
See, first of all, I have to know what is the RAM size on my host,
then simply run free command,
but it is showing in terms of KB.
But I wanted to see either in MB or in GB.
But if I go with GBD showing 0 because my RAM size is less than one,
GBD is actually 900 only.
That's why here I will practise with two free hyphen Yum.
But in your real time just to go with G-O only.
But here I'm practicing with hydronium for our practice along with young,
if you take heifer t option.
Now see that in the last line AD showing total US and currently available free RAM size.
Now before deciding whether your RAM size is low,
Armand, you hope to set a limit.
Suppose I will take my limit or my threshold value has 400 MB.
Whenever, if my RAM size is less than 400 MB,
Then I can say that my RAM is getting low,
but is based on your requirement in near real time,
you have to set the threshold limit.
Now from these command.
If I grapple with total for your better Brackets,
always tried to practice with capitals hyphen e.
Total aren't even simply can take total only.
Sorry.
You are getting lost lane in that last line.
So what I need for the field,
then you can take either a delegate command or cut command.
Suppose I hear, I'm going with AWPA comment or oc command.
You are getting your last value.
I mean, for the field,
no command which we need to decide whether you are RAM size is low or not.
No, let me implement a simple shell script.
Send automatic male alert message.
Let me write our shebang line first.
See, first of all,
I'm deciding a threshold limit.
So based on your requirement in your real time,
you will take this threshold limit,
simply threshold limit as of now,
in my case, 400 means it is in terms of EMB.
Now, let me find the free available RAM.
So just now we have seen a comment.
So I'm taking free RAM size are available RAM.
You can take any variable.
Then this combined output I'm assigning to that variable.
Now I'm writing a simple if condition.
If tested, you are free currently available RAM usage.
If d is less than, you know,
we have LT come iPhone LD option less than threshold emit.
Then you can say that your RAM size is getting low.
Then I am writing here simply then echo.
Simply I am taking hyphen e.
Server is running with low RAM size.
And what is that size? Suppose I want display in the next line.
In the next line I am writing simply available RAM is.
So here let me print that free RAM.
That's it.
Close it.
Now let me save it.
Probably the execution permissions for that.
Note on it.
See you output what you are getting.
Somebody is running with low RAM size and available RAM is 331.
Actually our limit is 400.
Suppose if I take 400 instead of 100,
if I take my limit as 300 means whenever if my RAM size available,
RAM size is less than 300,
then only I want to get a mail alerts saying that your RAM size is low.
Now if I run, you are not getting the output anything because now you're free.
Ram size is not crossing your threshold limit,
is not less than your threshold limit.
That's why in our case we are taken simply threshold limit, suppose 400.
Just to trigger a male, that's it.
Be clear in your real time,
you'll have your RAM size in terms of gb.
Then suppose you will take Threshold Limit as 1GB or 2GB,
just search under ten GB available RAM is there initially.
But whenever some applications are running you around will consume.
But maybe sometimes if more RAM is used,
then you are ram may fall to 1GB or 2GB.
If we take Threshold Limit as 2GB,
that whenever if you are free RAM size is less than two GB,
then other time you can send automatically male alert. So that is the concept.
Now let me save it.
So as of now you are running manually or shells could Monday or seeing output,
but automatically I need to send a mail alert.
Now what I will do is instead of displaying your outward,
I will redirect this output Pm male.
So suppose I am writing two here.
Suppose I want to send to this email id.
Do with scripting or the rate gmail.com.
Be clear, in your realtime,
your sorrow is already configured with male command.
So, but here I'm using a measure on Linux.
So there are mail command is configured with
imagine Sadat ip so that Italy can use mail command on eBay,
Amazon ceremony, homage online.
Let me simply write male iPhone year subject,
RAM info I'm writing then.
But it's just subject then to whom you are to send to address.
Let me save it. See here,
whenever if I run shell script,
right, it will send a mail alert to that given me lady.
To this melody. Generally you will get your mail eddies in your real-time to inbox.
But here we are going to get me late May from I measure Lennox our IP.
That's why it will store in my Gmail as a spam.
Let me show you first to my spam details I'm in.
As of now, we don't have anything here.
Now let me run our shell script.
Or just wait here, you'll see just now you got it. Ram info.
See the details, salaries running with the low RAM size C along with info.
Suppose if you need some date,
that is very clear, right?
Let me walk anymore shell script.
You know how to command output.
So in subject RAM info, after that,
suppose I am writing dollar parentheses date command so that you will get data as well.
Now let me rerun and see the output.
Yeah, just know you got one more melody.
Sorry, one more, may not say.
Fine.
But as of now you are running your shell script and it is triggering.
Suppose in real time,
you have to monitor continuously
forever written rates are for every minute of for every hour,
something like that, then you can schedule this job in contact.
I mean, using cron tab,
we can schedule a job, right?
We know how to schedule a job in cron.
Let me take a complete path for our script.
So this is what is a best practice actually.
So before creating a job.
So now this is our complete shell script. Let me copy it.
Now let me create a cron tab that says simply in crontab e. how five fields, right?
12345. So the meaning for this is for every minute it has to run your shell script.
So while running shell scripts,
suppose if we haul low memory,
low RAM size, then we'll degree male.
That's it. And one more thing.
Whenever if you are running giver shell script through crontab,
it's better to provide complete path for your mail command.
Sometimes it may not work.
And that's why I am writing complete path for my mail command.
Bin.
Let me save it.
Now crontab installing previously right now you can see
crontab hyphen L. So you have one crontab which will trigger for every minute.
Just observe it here and you email after one minute,
you'll get a male.
So suppose it is some 114940.
Just wait for one minute so that it will trigger a male.
So here's the way how you can send automatic mail alerts based on your requirement,
not only for your RAM size,
you can also implement a shell script just to get to wonder
some moaned point size mount point usage.
So based on that,
you can write a shell script and you can trigger a main.
Just now, you got it right.
See that?
No.
Like when for every minute now yourselves get World War.
We are shells could will trigger using your crontab. Instead of every minute.
Suppose I want to check for every 30 minutes, then slashed 30.
That's it. Okay.
Now it will work after 30 minutes.
It will run and we'll take the RAM uses.
And if it is less than your threshold limit,
they will send the automatic male alert.
That's it. Okay.
Okay. Yes. Thank you.